### This episode is sponsored by Top Ruby Jobs
> If you're looking for a top Ruby job or for top Ruby talent, then you should check out Top Ruby Jobs. Top Ruby Jobs is a website dedicated to the best jobs available in the Ruby community.

**Tony Winn**: Today is Tuesday July 2nd 2013, and you're listening to Ruby5. I'm Tony Winn..

**Olivier Lacan**: ..and I'm Olivier Lacan..

T: ..and Ruby 5 is sponsored by Top Ruby Jobs.

O: DaWanda is looking for a web developer in Berlin, Germany.

T: MeUndies is looking for a senior Ruby on Rails developer in Los Angeles, California.

O: And Lister Technologies is looking for a senior Ruby developer in San Francisco, California.

T: So if you're looking for a top Ruby gig or a top Ruby talent, check out toprubyjobs.com .

---

### One Liner Webserver
> Nobuyoshi Nakada showed a beautifully simple way to start a web server within the present working directory by only using Ruby. ruby -run -e httpd . -p 5000

T: I noticed an exchange between Aaron Patterson and Nobuyoshi Nakada, both Ruby core contributors, yesterday on twitter. Nobuyoshi showed a beautifully simple way to start web server within the present working directory by only using Ruby.

O: You mean something like the single line Python script that was floating around?

T: Yeah, exactly. All you need to do is call `ruby -run -e httpd . -p 5000` .
That's will start the server using WEBrick, which comes with the Ruby Standard Library, and you can see the server running at localhost:5000 in your browser. If you have an index style HTML file in the directory, it will show up in your browser.

O: That's a really neat trick, especially for prototyping with static HTML files.

T: Exactly.

---

### Writing Better Controllers
> Damien Le Berrigaud of Pivotal Labs wrote up an interesting blog post this weekend about refraining from using mocks and stubs when testing controllers to foster object-oriented design.

T: Hey, Olivier. How do you say this name?

O: Damien Le Berrigaud

T: Damien Le Berrigaud?

O: Yes.

T: ..of Pivotal Labs wrote up an interesting blog post this weekend about refraining from using mocks and stubs when testing controllers to foster object-oriented design.

O: It's interesting because people seem to be moving away from testing controllers in favor of unit and integration tests. And he's talking about controller tests, right?

T: That's right. He argues about stopping methods on any instance of object as-is "smell" and goes on to refactor his controller logic into a class method first, and then into its own service.

O: That's sounds a lot like the kind of refactoring we've been doing on CodeSchool recently, and we've found it  to be very beneficial for both test speed and separation of concerns to do that kind of stuff.

T: Totally.

---

### verified_double
> George Mendoza let us know about verified_double, a contract-based mocking library he’s been working on that integrates with rspec.

O: Tony, do you think mocking is evil?

T: Do I think mocking is evil? It depends on what you mean. I think that mocks can be dangerous evil.. probably goes too far.

O: Yeah, I guess that would be a reasonable way to ask that question.

T: Then yeah, I think mocks are very useful to isolate your unit tests. But if you don't have integration tests in place, they can give you false confidence in your code.

O: Oh the sweet green lies. Well, George Mendoza let us know about "verified_double", a mocking library he's working on that integrates with Rspec and it doesn't let you delude yourself with lying marks.

T: That sounds pretty similar to "rspec-fire" which calls the mocked methods on the object to verify that they respond to them. How is this different?

O: You basically set up contracts within your specs using the Rspec syntax. If the object you're mocking doesn't have a spec that backs up this contract, "verified_double" warns you that you're in trouble basically.

---

### Building a mocking library
> Andy Lindeman's fantastic talk from Ancient City Ruby on Building a mocking library has been released.

T: Speaking of mocking libraries, a fantastic talk by Andy Lindeman from Ancient City Ruby 2013 is now available on Youtube.

O: This is by far the best live coding talk I've ever seen.

T: Yeah, and it's especially useful if you don't have a clear grasp on what mocks can do for you, or if you don't understand how powerful a really fast red-green-refactor cycle can be.

---

### Is my gem ready for Rails 4?
> Francesco Rodríguez and Florent Guilleux teamed up to create ready4rails4.net where you can find out whether a gem is compatible with Rails 4 or not.

O: Early this year, I started using Rails 4 beta on small project we use only. And I couldn't use the "haml-rails" gem. Because it had a strict dependency on older version of rails.

T: Yeah. it's always frustrating when the new version of Rails comes along, and many popular gems have to take a while to catch it up. I had a similar thing happened with "device" which now requires you to use branch on github patch work.

O: Thanks to Francesco Rodríguez and Florent Guilleux, we don't have to live to so much pain any more. They teamed up to create ready4rails4.net. You can find out whether a gem that it's compatible with Rails 4 or not.

T: You can even paste your existing Gemfile and see detail information about each gem. People have even provided notes, points, Pull Requests, if Rails 4 compatibility is worked on for the specific gem.

O: Since it's community site, feel free to report with gems you created or gems you use are compatible or will be soon.

---

### Open source contributions around the world
> David Fischer submitted a really neat tool to GitHub’s Data Challenge recently: a map of the world where he plotted all the open source contributors to the 200 most active GitHub repos in the first four months of 2013.

T: David Fischer submitted a really neat tool to GitHub’s Data Challenge recently. A map of the world where he plotted all the open source contributors to the 200 most active GitHub repos in the first four months of 2013.

O: A sight from the heartwarming effects has seen so many open source contributers. It's really cool to zoom in the map and see what project contribute to, in cities close to you. And who are the people who contribute it the most.
