## Episode #384 - July 9, 2013
The Original site is [Episode #384 on Ruby5](http://ruby5.envylabs.com/episodes/420-episode-384-july-9-2013)

* Decluttering lib
* Puma vs. Passenger
* Exception Notification 4.0
* Ettu and ETags
* Octopus 0.6.0
* The self-pipe trick

By Nathaniel Bibler, Carlos Souza

---

### This episode is sponsored by Top Ruby Jobs
> If you're looking for a top Ruby job or for top Ruby talent, then you should check out Top Ruby Jobs. Top Ruby Jobs is a website dedicated to the best jobs available in the Ruby community.

C: Today is Tuesday July 9th 2013, and you're listening to Ruby5. I'm Carlos Souza..

N: ..and Nathaniel Bibler..

C: ..and Ruby5 is sponsored by Top Ruby Jobs. International Technological University is looking for a senior Ruby on Rails developer in San Jose, California.

N: the Leysin American School in Switzerland is looking for Ruby programmer in Leysin, Switzerland

C: So if you're looking for a top Ruby gig or a top Ruby talent, check out toprubyjobs.com .

---

### Declutter Lib
> Kuba Suder wrote a blog post on how to declutter the lib directory in Rails apps based on his experience cleaning up his own.

C: So Nate, if one was to look under the `lib` folder on your current Rails project, how many different files would be they find?

N: Oh I don't even know..

C: ..and I don't blame you. Rails has a pretty well defined directory structure for Models, View, Controllers, and more recently Assets, and Mailer as well. But the `lib` folder has always been sort of the place to just shove about anything that doesn't follow into Rails create for you. For this reason, Kuba Suder wrote a blog post on how to declutter the `lib` directory, based on his experience cleaning up his own.

N: Oh cool, so what does he tell me that I can do to clean up the `lib` folder?

C: He mentions everything that relates to your app should be out of `lib` and under the `app` folder.

N: All right, so maybe things like Decorators, Presenters, Service objects, Background jobs, those should be maybe going in that like subfolders under `app`?

C: Exactly, and also Rails4 now creates `app/models/concern`, `app/controllers/concern` folder which should be used from modules intended to be mixed in to other classes.

N: All right. So what can stay in `lib` then?

C: According to Kuba, the `lib` directory should contain only those files that the generic and could be reusable another projects. Examples are interfaces to external web services, database tools, extensions to core Ruby classes, and basically anything that could be extracted into its own Ruby gem. So check out the blog post for more information and full basic guideline for keeping the `lib` folder clean.

---

### Puma vs. Passenger
> The guys from Phusion wrote up a very detailed article comparing their Phusion Passenger app server with Puma. It goes over multiple aspects, like concurrency, deployment models, performance for both CPU and I/O ­bound applications, memory usage, management tools, garbage collection, debugging, fault­ tolerance, resource control, documentation and runtime support.

N: The guys from Phusion wrote up a very detailed article comparing their Phusion Passenger app server with Puma.

C: Wait, wait, You're saying that that did not include my all time favorite server, WEBrick in there? Come on.

N: No, we're actually talking about real app servers here.

C: Alright, so what does the article say?

N: It goes over well a tons of aspect about these application servers. For example, like a how each handles concurrency in different thread pool strategy where Puma's dynamic thread pool versus Passenger's static but a opitimized thread pool, then maybe their deployment models, Passenger, you know, usually been integrate directory in the web server like Apache, Nginx, but Puma takes like a reverse proxy approch and listens on TCP sockets, UNIX sockets for HTTP requests, and there are a lot more stuff its covered. I mean, you're talking things like Performance for CPU over I/O-bound applications, Memory usage, Management tools, Garbage collection, Debugging, Fault-tolerance, Resource control, Documentation, and even Runtime support. Definitely, check out the article.

---

### Exception Notification 4.0
> Sebastian Martinez has recently released version 4.0 of the Exception Notification gem. The new version includes bug fixes, support for sidekiq and resque, better logging for notification errors and it's Rails 4 compatible. It also adds email and campfire notifiers, support for Webhooks, custom notifiers and it introduces a couple of changes the configuration API.

C: Sebastian Martinez has recently released version 4.0 of the `exception_notification` gem.

N: This is the gem that notifies you an error occurs in a Rack or Rails application and sends them over email or campfire notification. So what's new 4.0?

C: There are some bug fixes and a bunch of enhancements like support for `sidekiq` and `resque`, better logging for notification errors and it's Rails 4 compatible.

N: Nice. I like myself some Rails quattro.

C: There's more, in addition to existing email and campfire notifiers, there's now support Webhooks. Where you give it a URL to post new notifications to, and also custom notifiers, which are basically Ruby objects that respond to call. This new 4.0 version now also changed the configuration API. So check out the project documentation for more information.

---

### Ettu generates smarter ETags
> The Ettu gem transparently adds your view templates, JavaScript and CSS files into the Rails ­generated ETag equation.

C: The guys over Cloudspace recently released the `ettu` gem, which transparently adds your view templates, JavaScript and CSS files into the Rails ­generated ETag equation.

N: Why does it do that?

C: Oh well, OK so ETags are used a client browser know quickly when a page has been changed, or more importantly, not changed, and allows them to bypass network load times for contents they already have by responding with a 304 Not Modified. And that works really seemlessly and really well at a webserver level with static files, but if you want your non-dynamic Rails end-points to do the same, you might have a problem.

N: Oh I see, so like when I pass an ActiveRecord object to a fresh when call on my controller.

C: Right, Rails calls the object's cache key method to generate ETag and it completely bypasses any view code like Template and Assets. It gives you a performance advantage, but it might cause some issues down the road.

N: Oh because well my database data might not have changed, maybe my CSS did, and the ETag doesn't represent it well by default.

C: Exactly, if you change your CSS or Javascript and then deployed, you might have a problem. You can run to an issue where your visitors are trying to pull down old assets that don't really exists anymore all because your ETags are telling them that the page they thought they had was the same. And thus they are still using the old assets.

N: So how do I use this 'ettu' and what is the syntax?

C: It doesn't effect fresh one syntax at all. You just keep using fresh one the way you use to. So simply adding the gem `ettu` to `Gemfile`. Does it for you.

---

### Octopus 0.6.0 was released
> The Octopus gem allows you to do Database Sharding in ActiveRecord and they just released version 0.6.0. A couple of different things are new in this version, like some refactorings and clean ups, removal of the Octopus::Logger, using the MySQL2 Driver instead of MySQL for the spec suite and, most importantly dropping support for Rails 2.x. If you need Rails 2, then Octopus 0.5 is the latest version that you can use. Octopus 0.6 is Rails 3 only and the not­-yet-­released Octopus 0.7 is planning to support Rails 4.

N: Have you heard of `Octopus`?

C: I have heard of octopus, and I like the way it tastes.

N: Well, Not that type I'm taking about. The one I'm talking about is the `octopus` gem that allows you to do database sharing in ActiveRecord, and they just released version 0.6.0 .

C: Database sharing, that's when you use different database servers all within one application.

N: Yes. And while there are  several projects out there that implement sharing, DbCharmer, DataFabric, MultiDb, each project has its own limitations. The mingle of `Octopus` is provide better way of doing database sharing through a simple API.

C: Oh nice, so what's new in this version?

N: A couple of different things, like some refactorings and clean ups, the removal of the Octopus::Logger, using the MySQL2 Driver instead of MySQL for spec suite and, most importantly dropping support for Rails 2. If you need Rails 2, then Octopus 0.5 is the latest version that you can use. Octopus 0.6 is Rails 3 only and the not­-yet-­released Octopus 0.7 is planning to support Rails 4. So check out the project page for more details.

---

### The self-pipe trick
> Jesse Storrimer wrote an article on RubySource in which he shows a couple of caveats when working with UNIX signals and how you can solve them using a trick called the self­-pipe.

C: Jesse Storrimer wrote up an article on RubySource in which he shows a couple of caveats when working with UNIX signals and how you can solve them using a trick called the self­-pipe.

N: So what are these caveats?

C: Alright, so, because UNIX signals can your interrupt program at anytime, there is potential that while one signal
is being handled, another signal can arrive and interrupt the first handler. This can often lead to bugs that can often crush your program.

N: And how could we solve this?

C: Well, Jesse shows how both `foreman` and `unicorn` solve this by using global queue, which takes a logic out of signal handler blocks and further back in the main loop.

N: Done, problem solved, let's ship it.

C: Not so fast. This solution actually raises another issue, which is a potencial race condition that can lead `foreman` to effectively ignore a request to terminate a process it manages.

N: Oh no, how can you solve this race condition?

C: Ah well, he shows how you can solve this by using what's called the self-pipe, which is IO pipe that is not share within your processes. It's unlikely only impliment that most of Ruby projects, but the post is great read self indencation how tricky can be handled signal process properly.

N: And an indication that how we should be thinkful for having smart people on the community taking care of these issues for us.

---

### Thank You for Listening to Ruby5
> Ruby5 is released Tuesday and Friday mornings. To stay informed about and active with this podcast, we encourage you to do one of the following:

C: Thank You for Listening to Ruby5. Be sure to tune every Tuesday, and Friday for latest news in the Ruby and Rails community.

Follow [Envy Labs](http://twitter.com/envylabs) on Twitter
Or, subscribe with [iTunes](http://itunes.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewPodcast?id=327234205) or [RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/Ruby5)
This episode was co-produced and edited by audio guru [Jamison Rabb](https://twitter.com/jamisonrabbee).
