###This episode is sponsored by Top Ruby Jobs  
####If you're looking for a top Ruby job or for top Ruby talent, then you should check out Top Ruby Jobs. Top Ruby Jobs is a website dedicated to the best jobs available in the Ruby community.

**Tony Winn**: Today is Tuesday July 2nd 12:30. And you're listening to the Ruby5. I'm Tony Winn.

**Olivier Lacan**: And I'm Olivier Lacan.

T: Ruby 5 is sponsored by Top Ruby Jobs.

O:  DaWanda is looking for a web developer in Berlin , Germany.

T: MeUndies is looking for a senior Ruby on Rails developer in Los Angels, California.

O: Lister Technologies is looking for a senior Ruby developer in San Francisco, California.

T: So If you're looking for a top Ruby geek or a top Ruby talent, check out toprubyjobs.com .

---

###One Liner Webserver
####Nobuyoshi Nakada showed a beautifully simple way to start a web server within the present working directory by only using Ruby. ruby -run -e httpd . -p 5000	

T: I know the exchange between Aaron Patterson and Nobuyoshi Nakada both Ruby core contributers yesterday on twitter. Nobuyoshi showed beautifully simple way to start web server within present working directory by only using Ruby.

O: You means something like the single line python script *with floud around*?

T: Yeah, exactly. All you need to do is call `ruby -run -e httpd . -p 5000` .
That's what that start the server using WEBrick which comes with a Ruby standard library. And you can see the server running at localhost:5000 in your browser. If you have a index style html file in the directory it will show up in your browser.

O: That really need a trick especially for prototyping with static html files.

T: Exactly.

---
 	
###Writing Better Controllers
####Damien Le Berrigaud of Pivotal Labs wrote up an interesting blog post this weekend about refraining from using mocks and stubs when testing controllers to foster object-oriented design.

T: Hey, Olivier. How do you say this name?

O: Damien Le Berrigaud

T: Damien Le Bego?

O: Yes.

T: Of Pivotal Labo wrote up an interesting blog post this weekend about refraining from using mocks and stubs when testing contorollers to foster object-oriented design.

O: It's interesting because people seems to be moving away from testing controllers *in faver* unit and integration tests. And he's talking about controller tests, right?

T: That's right. He argues about stopping methods on any instance of object. it is  smell in goes on to refactor his controller logic into class methods first. And then into it's on service.

O: That's sounds lot like the kind of refactoring we've been doing on cooltok  recently. And we found it  to be very beneficial for both test speed and separation of concerns to do that kind of stuff.

T: Totally.

---

###verified_double
####George Mendoza let us know about verified_double, a contract based mocking library he’s been working on that integrates with rspec.

O: Tonny, do you think mocking is evil?

T: Do I think mocking is evil? It depends on what you mean. I think mocking can be evil. Pry goes too far.

O: Yeah, I guess that would be the reasonable way to as the question.

T: Yeah, I think mocks are very useful isolate unit tests. But if you don't have integration test in place, that can give you ???  confidence in your code.

O: Oh the sweet green lies. Well, George Mondoza lets us know verified_double mocking library he's working on integrate Rspec and it doesn't let you delete yourself with line marks.

T: That sounds pretty similar to rspec-fire which calls mock methods on the object verify their respond to  them. How is this different?

!!!
O: You basicly show up contracts within your spec using Rspec syntax if the object your mocking doesn't have spec backs up contract verified_double worn you that your in trouble basicly.

---

###Building a mocking library
####Andy Lindeman's fantastic talk from Ancient City Ruby on Building a mocking library has been released.

T: Speaking mocking library is a fantastic talk by Andy Lindeman from Ancient City Ruby 2013. It is now available on Youtube.

O: This is by far the best live coding talk ever seen.

T: Yeah, it's especialy useful if  you don't have *clear glass bun* way mocks can do for you. Or if you don't understand how powerful or really fast red, green, refactor cycle can be.

---

###Is my gem ready for Rails 4?
####Francesco Rodríguez and Florent Guilleux teamed up to create ready4rails4.net where you can find out wether a gem is compatible with Rails 4 or not.

O: earlly this year, I started using Rails 4 beta on small project only. I couldn't use the haml-rails gem. Because it hard strict depency on older version of rails.

T: Yeah, it's always frastrating when the new version of rails comes along and many poplur gems have to take a while to catch up. I had a similer thing happened with device  which now requires you to use branch on github patch work.

O: Thanks to Francesco Rodríguez and Florent Guilleux, we don't have to live to so mach pain any more. They teamed up to create ready4rails4.net. Or you can find out a gem that it's conpatible with rails 4 or not.

T: You can even paste your existing Gemfile,and see detail information about each gem. People have even provide notes point pull request if Rails 4 conpatibility is worked on for the specific gem.

O: Since it's community site feel free to report with gems you created or gems use or compatible or will be soon.

---

###Open source contributions around the world
####David Fischer submitted a really neat tool to GitHub’s Data Challenge recently: a map of the world where he plotted all the open source contributors to the 200 most active GitHub repos in the first four months of 2013.

David Fischer submitted a really neat tool to GitHub’s Data Challenge recently. A map of the world where he plotted all the open source contributors to the 200 most active GitHub repos in the first four months of 2013.

I sight full hartwarming effective seen so many open source contributers. It's really cool zoomin?? of the map and see what project contribute to in series close to you. And who are the people who contribute most.